In V3 the interface to the Graph entity has been simplified, but the logic to apply both edges and nodes may identify two base _Types_ for integration. Nodes meet within a tree independent of the edge connections. This allows cleaner abstraction of the node entity - but does require more trickery when iterating out.

Notably (and by accident) this contours well-within the graph <node|edge> ethos.


+ Path Positions
+ Path Compatibility (allowed paths) oracle

Paths provide deterministic routes through the graph, based upon given connection.
Upon creating a chain of linear connections, the "edge positions" provide a stepping route from _start_ to _end_ without knowledge of the node.

In the "Pinafore" example, all the sentences generate _position paths_ for each line. When graph binds the given _word_ nodes, route entropy may produce unwanted paths:


    I've information vegetable ...
    ... In short, when I've a smattering of ...
    ... fugue of which I've heard the music's ...

Connecting the term `I've` and `a`|`heard`|`information`, yielding a bad route. The _position paths_ write three distinct routes.


---

# Manifest Walks

> When walking a graph certain routes may not be expected (not within the applied "positions" connection list). This route emerges from walking the graph without a path route and discovering newly "manifested walks".

A list of paths and the found "walks" should return a list of _manifested_ routes, discovered through the graph connections, but not one of the defined "paths."

This is useful to discover anomalous connections through a graph, when a "defined" list of connections (paths) are stored.

*addendum*

when nodes are connected through a manifested route, it may be prudent to delete the route. Hover this may affect other connections, or produce a disconnected graph.

As such, applying a new edge - of which depletes events through the connection could be one solution.

---

The "idconnections" need not exist, as the `path` builds a list of connections from start to end. This should infer the ID connections to return the same list.
Furthermore this assists with the discovery of (above) manifested routes.

## Walkers | Events

+ A Walker steps the graph
    + can read/gather/manipulate nodes and graphs
    + can step graphs
    + can die

The walker iterates from a given node until _some kind_ of depletion:

+ Hitting and exit node
+ internal step decay
+ node instruction

A walker will step onto any connected node. Forking of the _event_ occurs during the step, by the walker.

---

In a general case, we spawn a iterator to walk the nodes. within a "for-loop", the stepping exhausts and the loop ends. The walker may manipulate the graph, and capture values whilst stepping. The values include both nodes and edges.

Event cycling may allow a walker to _proceed forever_, forking or thin stepping through nodes without end. This should be throttled by an independent clock - such as an FPS ticker,

```py
w = Walker(graph)
nodelist = w.step_next()
w.kill()
```


---

Discovering loops through sequence walks

for each step, capture the ID and store +1 (indexed from -1). All nodes through
a chain should stack in-order. If a node reaches `>0`, A loop has occurred and the walk should halt,

    connections  default   during   hit
    zero         -1        0        0
    one          -1        0    |-  1
    two          -1        0    |   0
    three        -1        0    |   0
    four         -1       -1    |   0
    # one        -1       -1   -|   0
    # five       -1       -1        0

